Avalanche comparison (#3784)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-comparisons-avalanche.md

---
id: learn-comparisons-avalanche
title: Polkadot and Avalanche
sidebar_label: Avalanche
description: A high-level comparison between Polkadot and Avalanche.
keywords: [avalance, proof of stake, comparison]
slug: ../learn-comparisons-avalanche
---

<!-- Add more infographics to this page -->

> Polkadot and Avalanche both have an architecture that allows for application-specific blockchains to be designed and connected via a "main" chain. In Polkadot, this is the Relay-chain and Avalanche does this with 3 primary chains - the P-chain, X-chain, and C-chain. Similar to how Polkadot has its Parachains that connect to the Relay-chain, Avalanche has what're called subnets. Subnets are application-specific chains that can be deployed alongside the primary chains. Similar to Polkadot, Avalanche also uses a PoS mechanism in its consensus algorithm to elect its validators who stake their AVAX tokens in order to become validators and secure the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Polkadot and Avalanche both have an architecture that allows for application-specific blockchains to be designed and connected via a "main" chain. In Polkadot, the "main" chain is the Relay-chain and in Avalanche, there are three primary chains - the P-chain, X-chain, and C-chain. Similar to how Polkadot's Parachains that connect to the Relay-chain, Avalanche has what're called subnets. Subnets are application-specific chains that can be deployed alongside the primary chains. Similar to Polkadot, Avalanche also uses a PoS mechanism in its consensus algorithm to elect its validators who stake their AVAX tokens in order to become validators and secure the network.
```
